Zoho Analytics User Roles
Zoho Analytics supports a role based model, enabling users controlled access over your organization's data, report and dashboards. To make it easier, Zoho Analytics provides a set of predefined roles to collaborate with your users. They are:
Account Administrator is the person who owns the Zoho Analytics account and has the authority to perform all possible operations available. This includes creating an Organization, Workspace, creating reports/dashboards, managing users, sharing reports, managing subscription etc. There can be only one administrator for an account. | |
Organization Administrator is the person who is the admin of an organization in Zoho Analytics. An Organization Administrator has access to all the workspaces within the organization. An Organization Administrator can perform all the operations inside their Organization except add, activate, and deactivate another Organization Administrator. The Organization Administrator can only be added by the Account Administrator. Refer to the topic Managing Organizations to learn how to add an Organization Administrator to an account. This option is available only from the Standard plan and above. | |
Workspace Administrator (previously known as Database Owner) is the person who is the admin of a specific Workspace(s) in a Zoho Analytics Organization. A Workspace Administrator can perform all the operations in a Workspace, except deleting or renaming the Workspace, and backing up the Workspace. The Workspace Administrator can be added by the Account Administrator and the Organization Administrator. Refer to the topic Multiple Workspace Administrator to learn how to add a Workspace Administrator to an account. This option is available only from the Standard plan and above. | |
User is a person who can access the Organization, shared with him/her by one of the Administrators or Users. Users can access the shared information only by logging in to his/her account in Zoho Analytics. Click to learn about "Sharing and Collaboration". | |
| Viewer(s) - Viewer(s) can access the views shared to them by one of the Administrators or Users, in read-only mode. |
You can also create Custom Roles. These are account level roles that can be defined with a customized set of permissions for your users. You can define fine-grained permissions for each custom role you create, based on your specific needs. Users associated to these custom roles inherit all the defined permissions over the workspaces shared with them. Click here to learn more on Custom Roles.